/*
 * @Author: pt13 
 * @Date: 2023-12-23 21:38:40 
 * @Last Modified by: pt13
 * @Last Modified time: 2023-12-23 22:28:15
 */


CHAPTER 1:

Host OS, that is, the computer operating system you usually use, such as WINDOWS. Do not install any software on the host,
except VBOX and KVM, because our security network environment rely on these virtualization technologies and advise you not 
to use VMWARE, because it is non-open source and paid software.if you want a higher level of network security, you have to 
abandon WINDOWS and MACOS and turn on a LINUX system with higher degree of freedom.    

This CHAPTER, the question you must anwser.(You should google,bing,or Wikipedia 、CSDN by youself).

1、Why is LINUX safer than WINDOWS and MACOS?
2、Which factions are divided into Linux?
3、Which Linux version should novice use?(please learn more about qubes whonix and tails system)
4、What are the performance expenses of each version of linux? is it suitable for your computer?(we want to run a few virtual machines at 
the same time on your HOST OS, and even build a physical level isolation system)
5、How to use linux system?(you maybe need to learn a complete course, about 30 days)
6、Can i use Windows to perform the linux system operation?
7、what are VBOX,KVM,VMWARE?
8、VBOX and VMWARE's various network card modes are different and how to use?
9、Which virtualization software should novice use?
10、How to install linux as host os?
11、What software should your host OS be installed?
12、How should your HOST OS set up the network, firewall and other contents?
13、How to set the VBOX network card(Global)?
14、What is shell, what are the common shell?
15、What is public network address and what is private network address?

SOME ADVICES：

The number of times i reinstalling Arch linux is not less than 10 times. This experience tells me that you'd better try to install various
versions of Linux on VBOX or VMWARE first, Until you are familiar with the installation and operation of Linux system, and use "rufus"
software to burn the Linux system into U/mobile disk and install it on the computer, because your bad habits you develop on WINDOWS, it
is likely to cause a complete collapse of linux.(For example, my obsessive-compulsive patient often manually delete some system garbage
fiels, so rf -rf xxx, Enter, Black screen, OVER .... )

Then, I directly recommend that you are in KALI(offensive system),Parrot(offensive system),Fedora,Debian,Lubuntu Wait for the linux version as your HOST OS.
(if you like torture, you can choose Arch linux, anyway, your HOST OS will be damaged sooner or later)

Novices bindly choose VBOX(you can choose KVM too),VBOX can be install windows. After installing linux on virtual software, you can
learn and use various commands of linux. And understand the difference between each shell(bash ,zsh ,etc.)

Your HOST OS software comes with VBOX or KVM and systems. Do not install any software, not limit to your country. of course, you can 
access the address 1.1.1.1 in the browser, and the sorfware above can be installed on your HOST OS. This content involves how you set up
HOST OS networks and firewalls.

We take Debian12 as an example. your HOST OS generally installs internet, because the network card use DHCP services, connecting to network
cables or  WIFI(network cable and WIFI directly understand as routers), After the automatic distribution is automatically allocated to you
a network IP address (your computer ip address) and router(public network ip address) to communicate. The following is the intention of 
understanding the public network and private network:
1 is router(public network address, community network exit), 2 is swithch(local network gateway), 3 is your computer ip address(connect
to the same with 4), 4 is your wife's computer IP address(connect to the sanme switch with 3), At this time,3 and 4 can be communicated.
For example, if you use the 3 computer to enter the ping 192.168.22.6 on the command line(CMD, POWERSHELL), it can be return the data(
Unless the other party is prohibited by ping ).
At this time, your can set your 3 gateway address to 192.168.22.6, Netmask to 255.255.255.0, DNS set to 192.168.22.6, the ip address 
is unchanged(192.168.22.5). The computer is on the internet. Even if your computer cannot directly connect to the local area network
gateway(such as the local area network customs prohibited your ip address for network), the premise is that her computer's firewall is
released on your computer ip address. if you can't understand the relevant information of the  nework settings, please correct me
(LEARNING).


                                                     >3（192.168.22.5） 
1（192.168.0.0）         > 2（192.168.22.1）
                                                     >4（192.168.22.6）

Habing said that, if your HOST OS can go directly to the internet, you don't need to control it ~.~. But DNS is still recommanded to be 
set to 1.1.1.1(CLOUDFLARE) or 208.67.220.220(OPEN DNS), it can be 95.85.95.85(a company forgot), 8.8.8.8/8.8.4.4(Google), if you use the 
default DNS of the automatic network, Then regional network service provider(ISP) your located completely has your domain name  Analysis 
record.

Of course, this settings cannot completely ensure that your DNS is set by yourself. if the insurance is little bit 1.1.1.1, let's take a
book.(Although i do not engage in and oppose high-risk activities)

DEBIAN's DNS can be set at /etc/resolv.conf, or it can be set directly in the application. if you check the dns address of /etc/resolv.conf
after restarting, the dns address of /etc/resolv.conf is changed to ISP address. SO it is recommanded that you set in the system application.
This is caused by the files read by the system by default. The system comes to the control of DNS with the network card management software
and eliminates your settings.

The next step is the firewall. What you need to understand is the differences and use of UFW,iptables,nftables. The latter two learning
costs are relatively high(14days). it is recommanded to learn UFW. Enter on your command line,

sudo apt install ufw （Install the firewall, some systems have been installed, and try out the output information）
sudo ufw status (Check it whether it is turned on)
sudo ufw enable （enable UFW）
sudo systemctl enable ufw (Open automatically start UFW firewall when start computer)
sudo ufw default deny incoming (The network traffic that rejected the machine by default)
sudo ufw default allow outgoing (The network traffic that is allowed to be out of this machine by default)

This is the basic firewall settings of HOST OS. As for whether you can use other defensive tools to make the system of HOST OS, it depends
on personal needs.in fact, no other software in installed. The possible attack surface is Software or systems such as VBOX or leaks, please
continue to pay attention to the official community and update the system in time.

A few words, APT(source), that is, The source of your installation of software packages. Do not change it. The official may be very slow 
in some country, but it is safe. if you already have VPN to share it, you can share it with HOST OS, Such as you computers and mobile phones
have the same WIFI, You can also use the phone itself to use hot spots to connect VPN, and set the port you want to share in VPN soft ware,
and then check your mobile phone ip address itself(general found) on the phone. Enter on the device proxy the ip address of the mobile
phone and the sharing port set in the VPN to see if it can be connected, you can set an agent separatly for APT, so that the use of APT
will be much faster.
Debian's APT proxy file seems to be in the /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/ , if not , touch a proxy.conf here, write proxy rules in it,
The writing rules of each Linux distribution may be different, and check the information by yourself(How to add proxy for APT).

In these issues, Chapter 1 also has an important pratical knowledge point, how to set the global network card of VBOX, We put it on Gateway
OS to discuss.

章节 1：
HOST OS（宿主机），也就是你平时使用的电脑操作系统，如WINDOWS,
不要在宿主机上装任何软件，除了VBOX、KVM，因为我们的安全网络环境要依赖这些虚拟化技术，劝你不要使用VMWARE，因为它是非开源并且是付费软件。
如果你想要更高的网络安全级别，请抛弃WINDOWS和MACOS，转向自由度更高的LINUX系统。

这个章节，你必须回答的问题。(你应该自行google、bing，或者维基百科,CSDN)
1、为什么LINUX比WINDOWS和MACOS更安全？
2、LINUX分为哪几个系列？
3、新手该使用哪个LINUX版本？(请额外了解QUBES WHONIX 和TAILS系统)
4、各版本的LINUX，性能开销如何？是否适合你的电脑？（我们要在你的HOST OS上同时运行几个虚拟机，甚至搭建物理层面的隔离系统）
5、LINUX系统如何使用？（你可能需要学习一个完整课程，约30天）
6、我能否先使用WINDOWS进行LINUX系统操作的练习？
7、什么是VBOX、KVM、VMWARE？
8、VBOX、VMWARE各种网卡模式区别以及如何使用？
9、新手应该使用哪款虚拟化软件？
10、如何安装LINUX作为HOST OS？
11、你的HOST OS 应该安装哪些软件？
12、你的HOST OS 应该如何设置网络、防火墙等内容？
13、VBOX的网卡如何设置？（全局）
14、什么是SHELL，常见的SHELL有哪些？
15、什么是公网地址，什么是私网地址？


一些建议：

我重装arch linux的次数不低于10次，这段经历告诉我，你最好先在VBOX或VMWARE上面尝试安装各版本的LINUX，
直到熟悉LINUX的安装和操作之后，再使用“REFUS”这款软件把LINUX系统烧录到U盘里并安装到电脑上，因为你在WINDOWS上养成的不良习惯，
很可能造成LINUX的完全崩溃。（比如我这个强迫症患者经常会手动删除一些系统垃圾文件，于是出现 rm -rf xxx ,回车，黑屏，OVER....）

那么，我直接建议你在KALI（进攻型系统）、PARROT（进攻型系统）、FEDORA（开发型系统，性能开销较大）、DEBIAN12（性能开销稍微大）、Lubuntu(性能开销极小)
等LINUX版本当中选择一个作为HOST OS。（喜欢折磨可以选择ARCH LINUX，反正你的HOST OS迟早会搞坏的）

新手盲选VBOX（喜欢折腾可以选KVM），VBOX可以安装在WINDOWS上，在VBOX等虚拟化软件上安装LINUX后，你就可以学习和使用LINUX的各种命令，
以及了解一下各个SHELL（BASH、ZSH等）的区别。

你的HOST OS 除了VOBX或KVM和系统自带的，不要安装任何软件，不限于你所在的国家。当然，你可以在浏览器访问1.1.1.1这个地址，那上面的软件可以装在你的HOST OS 上。
这个内容就要涉及到你如何设置HOST OS 的网络以及防火墙了。

我们以 DEBIAN12.4.0 为例，你的HOST OS 一般情况下安装好就能上网，因为网卡使用了DHCP服务，接上网线或者WIFI（网线和WIFI直接理解为路由器）
后自动分配给你一个内网IP地址（你的电脑IP地址）和路由器（公网IP地址）进行通讯，以下理解公网和私网示意图：
1为路由器（公网地址，小区网络出口），2为交换机（局域网网关），3为你的电脑IP地址（和4连接同一个交换机），4为你老婆的电脑IP地址（和3连接同一个交换机），
此时3和4是可以进行通信的，比如你用3的电脑在命令行（cmd、powershell）上输入 ping 192.168.22.6 是可以返回数据的（除非对方禁止PING），
这时你就可以把你（3）的网关地址设置为192.168.22.6，NETMASK设置为255.255.255.0,DNS设置为192.168.22.6，本机IP地址不变（192.168.22.5），借助你老婆的
电脑进行上网了，即使你的电脑无法直接连接局域网网关（比如局域网网关禁止你的IP地址进行联网），还有一个前提是她电脑的防火墙对你这个电脑IP地址放行。
理解不了自行查阅网络设置相关资料，不对请指正。（学习ING）


                                                     >3（192.168.22.5） 
1（192.168.0.0）         > 2（192.168.22.1）
                                                     >4（192.168.22.6）
 

话说回来，如果你的HOST OS 能够直接上网，就不用管了～。～ ，但是DNS还是建议设置为1.1.1.1（CLOUDFLARE DNS）或者208.67.220.220（OPEN DNS）,
也可以是95.85.95.85（某公司忘了）、8.8.8.8\8.8.4.4（谷歌），如果你使用自动联网默认的DNS，那么你所在地区网络服务提供商（ISP）就完全拥有你的域名解析记录了，
当然这个设置也不能完全保证你的DNS是自己设置的，保险一点还是去1.1.1.1看看吧。（虽然我并不从事并反对高危活动）
DEBIAN的DNS 可以在 /etc/resolv.conf 进行设置，也可以直接在应用程序里进行设置，如果在重启后检查发现/etc/resolv.conf 的DNS地址改回了ISP的地址，
那么建议你在系统应用程序里设置，这是系统默认读取的文件导致的，系统自带网卡管理软件争夺了DNS的控制权，消灭了你的设置。

接下来就是防火墙了，你需要了解的是UFW、IPTABLES、NFTABLES的区别以及使用，后两者学习成本还是比较高的（14天），建议学习UFW的使用就可以了，以DEBIAN12为例，
在你的命令行上输入， 
sudo apt install ufw （安装UFW防火墙，有的系统已经装好了，试一下看输出信息就知道了）
sudo ufw status (检查是否开启)
sudo ufw enable （启用）
sudo systemctl enable ufw (开机自动启动防火墙)
sudo ufw default deny incoming (默认拒绝进入本机的网络流量)
sudo ufw default allow outgoing (默认允许从本机外出的网络流量)
这就是HOST OS基本的防火墙设置了，至于你能否利用其它防御性工具进行HOST OS 的系统加固就要看个人需求了，其实不装其他软件，可能的攻击面就是
VBOX等软件或系统本身漏洞了，请持续关注官方社区并及时更新系统。

罗嗦几句，APT（源），也就是你安装软件包的来源，不要乱改，官方的可能很慢，但是很安全，如果你已经有了一个VPN可以分享给HOST OS 使用，比如你的电脑和手机连同样的WIFI，
也可以手机本身开热点给电脑使用，用你的手机连接VPN，并在VPN软件中设置你要分享的端口，然后在手机上查询手机本身的IP地址（一般都能找到），在电脑的浏览器代理上输入
手机的IP地址和VPN里设置的分享端口，看看是否能联网，能连的话就可以给APT单独设置代理，这样APT的使用会快很多。
DEBIAN的文件好像是在 /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/ ,如果没有的话，就touch 一个proxy.conf，在里面编写代理规则，各个LINUX发行版本的编写规则可能不同，
自行查阅资料（如何给APT添加代理）。

这些问题里，章节1 还有一个重要的实操知识点就是，VBOX的全局网卡如何设置，我们放到GATEWAY OS 去讨论。













